the end of the world has always been a
recurring theme for hollywood and it
always sells the core is no exception
the film takes place in a timeline where
the earth has stopped rotating due to
the core not being the proper
temperature to bring it back to the
normal temperature a handful of
astronauts must journey to the center of
the earth and detonate a nuclear bomb
before the core superheats and destroys
all life on the planet so spoiler alert
obviously while i may give you my
opinion on the film here that's no
substitute for experiencing it yourself
links to the film are in the description
like the video if you enjoy and
subscribe to see more already as the
stars on the paramount logo swoop in the
soundtrack puts you in a state of
suspense that makes you feel like you're
in for the ride of your life by the time
the title screen popped up next i was so
pumped up that they could have said this
was a movie about bears hibernating and
i would have been excited next thing i
knew i was watching a business
transaction take place i'm still excited
as the businessman walks into his
meeting his vision goes topsy turvy and
he dies on the spot from outside
pandemonium ensues as a world that just
seemed normal falls into disarray as
people begin to react and die to an
unknown source now we just leave all
those people there and shoot over to the
university of chicago aaron eckhart is a
professor of science which somehow i
believe in a million timelines dr joshua
keys is sought after by two men in black
suits who come to his class and take him
elsewhere they fly him to washington dc
where josh runs into another colleague
of his who is another professor of a
different science they take the two of
them to a room filled with tables of
dead bodies here they're introduced to
general purcell who explains to them how
32 people simultaneously drop dead
within a mile radius this is where josh
shows his prowess for the unknown in
solving it within a minute he deduces
that every single victim happened to
have a pacemaker that got fried at the
exact same time meanwhile in london
swarms of birds start to fall out of the
sky and wreck devastation on an
unsuspecting crowd i'm not gonna lie i
laughed at this part none of the idea of
what was going on but the way they
filmed it made me feel like someone was
standing just outside the shot throwing
plastic toy pigeons at the actors and
actresses and just to play along with
why i was laughing did you know that at
exactly 8 minutes and 59 seconds towards
the end of the bird scene a trout is
seen hitting a window instead the crew
that was in charge of the cg pigeons
left it in the final shot as a joke josh
watches the news of the phenomena and it
makes him believe that something else is
at play here something larger he goes on
a tangent that makes him look like a
crazed scientist but we all know that
that isn't the case for a film made in
2003 i have to say the computer graphics
for a space shuttle in space were
terrible but it's in that space shuttle
that we meet are three astronauts back
commander richard and timmins are all in
space preparing to land upon re-entry
they find out that they are off course
and they are lined up to land straight
in downtown los angeles thankfully beck
finds an alternative landing strip which
gives us one of the cringiest visuals of
a space shuttle landing under bridges in
downtown los angeles that was rough now
we flip over to josh who is trying to
get a mr zimski to read his theories on
the end of the world that's happening
somehow him telling zimsky that it's the
end of the world is enough for him to
sit down and read his entire theory
luckily for the sake of the storyline he
does believe him and he gets word to
washington now we flip back over to
washington where we run into beck and
general purcell who seems to have a
history of some sort beck learns that
her heroics of a safer landing of the
space shuttle isn't enough to let her
make her way up the ladder she steps
outside and witnesses what looks like
the northern lights in washington dc we
shoot back over to josh who is drunk in
a bar and once again the same two guys
in black suits pop up to pick him up and
take him back to washington if we could
just sit in one location that would be
great once josh is in front of
washington officials he explains his
theory his theory is that the outer core
which is a layer of hot liquid that
constantly spins in one direction has
stopped spinning he explains that the
earth will show terrible signs of change
over time after some time the earth will
collapse and burn
at this point josh mentions something
that is actually a true fact the deepest
hole we've ever dug is seven miles deep
the shaft is the cola super deep
borehole in russia now we're in utah of
course we couldn't stay in washington dc
much longer now we meet brazelton who
just so happens to have a giant hangar
in the middle of nowhere with the one
solution for how to get to the core it's
here that brazelton gives them a way to
dig a hole and a shell to get them down
there during this brazilton mentions
he's created unobtainium unobtainium is
a term used by sci-fi fans for an
extremely rare not yet discovered
substance that's still necessary now we
pop over to who knows where where the
fbi is about to raid a guy's trashy
apartment now they bring him with the
crew they give rat yes that's his name
the options of being turned in for
multiple hacking laws being broken or
helped them everyone should have seen
them pulling the scum character out and
blackmailing them into helping them it's
a trope that isn't going to die anytime
soon as everyone prepares for a briefing
on the mission an exchange between
general purcell and zimsky alludes to
the idea that something they had worked
on before has caused this problem josh
explains that the crew they've assembled
will deliver a gigantic nuclear warhead
to the core and detonate it one thing i
will say for this film is that it
doesn't follow the same story
progression problems that most others do
it has unlimited resources from the
world and they are still taking a
reasonable three months to prepare for
their mission a lot better than the 24
hours a lot of other movies used to
progress the story naturally after a few
heart-to-heart moments and quirky
interactions a superstorm pops up that
concerns everyone sure enough a
superstorm appears over rome causing
electricity to surge through all of the
appliances lightning rips up the streets
and so much lightning strikes the
coliseum that it explodes the coliseum
used in this shot was shot using a
40-foot model of the structure itself
this surge in weather phenomena causes
the team to assemble and jump-start
their mission to the core as they gather
outside of their vehicle they make one
last toast to their mission and vehicle
which they just now learn is named
virgil there was something about
watching the launch of virgil that made
the movie start to feel surreal watching
a countdown from a command center that
literally replicated nasa only to see
the vehicle shoot straight down into the
ocean instead of up into space with
something that makes the mission
actually have a depth of majesty of
course once they reach the earth's crust
seismic activity shoots off the charts
rocks hit the hull and virgil spirals
towards the crust in a cyclone of speed
once they hit the crust and begin
digging deeper the mission starts off as
a success after 12 hours of their
journey they hit their first obstacle or
actually their lack of their camera
picks up a static area on their camera
which translates to open space so
essentially when they hit these points
they're falling through the air like a
plane out of the sky as they careen
through a forest of what looks like
gemstone towers they come to a halt when
something jams the drilling laser they
are at a complete stop and off course
after a very quick discussion it's
agreed that the only option is to take
some of the cooling that is keeping them
from melting and go outside to cut
whatever held them up now that they're
outside a virtual we finally get a good
glimpse of where they are what do we see
a little forest of gemstone towers
overlooking a vast nothingness with tiny
sparkles also leave it to humans to mess
up the earth even more on their way down
they end up causing a leak of the layers
magma floods down on them from the layer
they just came from on top of that the
cutter used to break them free requires
more oxygen so josh hooks it up to his
supply of oxygen causing him to pass out
just as the crew starts to celebrate a
small shrapnel of rock from the top
layer drops right through the
commander's helmet killing him beck now
has command of virgil who leads them
back down on their journey josh gets
brought back to life so they continue on
their mission but now they're one short
josh and begg have a lovely little heart
to heart where they address his active
heroics a simple professor did what was
required to continue the mission day two
starts and it begins with a bang virgil
and the crew happened upon a layer of
diamonds which virgil's lasers aren't
designed to cut through with the
maneuverability of a barge virgil isn't
intended to turn like that and just like
the titanic the tiniest point of a
diamond iceberg causes a breach in the
last car or virgil due to the breach
josh's colleague is trapped in it as it
shuts down to eject the car beck is
given a tough decision either allow it
to eject or risk everyone to save him
easy decision if you ask me beck decides
the risk to the mission isn't worth his
life while josh and razzleton attempt to
open the doors the last moments of
josh's colleague are some of the most
heartfelt moments of the entire movie so
far and his death is slow and kind of
agonizing as josh makes his way to the
bridge again he confronts beck this
interaction alone turns back from the
simple navigator to the brutal commander
so fast it'll give you whiplash the next
time we see josh his character has had
the quickest forgiving turnaround i've
ever seen from a character that just
lost his best friend all of a sudden
virgil begins picking up a lot of speed
which ends up throwing off all of the
calculations it's now that zimsky
decides that their mission is a failure
and he radios back to general purcell
saying that destiny is a go no one but
general purcell understands what that
means zimski enlightens the crew of his
plan destiny stands for deep earth
seismic trigger initiative essentially
someone made an electromagnetic weapon
and zimsky made it better and in turn it
turns out that it directly caused the
core to shut down after a back and forth
conversation it's decided that they will
continue on what is now a suicide
mission this in turn causes zimski to
break down and lose his mind on what's
left of the crew thankfully brazilian
has enough of his rambling and punches
him ever so slightly but apparently it's
enough to knock him out while this is
going on rat picks up a strange reading
on his monitor it turns out that the
deadly microwaves mentioned in the
beginning have found their first hole
and start cooking everyone and
everything in its path the microwaves
eat away at the golden gate bridge ever
so quickly causing a devastating scene
that makes the bird scene in the
beginning look like child's play general
purcell takes this as a sign that they
need to fire destiny as soon as possible
which makes rat thinks it's as bad as it
really is rat makes contact with josh
secretly and josh tells him that he has
to slow it down to give them time
meanwhile josh and his crew are running
simulation after simulation to try to
develop a new plan as he babbles
possibilities zimski comes up with a
plan essentially the new plan includes a
bunch of tiny explosions instead of one
big bang while they work on hot wiring
the nukes to explode how they want
destiny is being primed and rat is
racing against time to hack his way to
destiny's location virgil is now almost
within reach of the core but now it
turns out that they have to go into a
crawl space that is 9000 degrees to
release compartments with bombs of
course they draw straws to see who goes
into the crawl space i mean literally
draw straws the end of the world and
their own lies are at stake and we're
drawing straws to see who lives and dies
with one last touching moment between
characters brazelton descends into the
crawl space to release the couplings
he's blasted with a wave of heat that
almost sends him reeling instantly but
no instead we have to watch him stumble
while bits of his suit melt away and we
have to listen to sound effects that
make this sound like one of the most
agonizing deaths in film history
brazilton makes it and in his last
moments he is eviscerated so with a crew
down to three the odds against him and
destiny charging they're running out of
time they continue to barrel towards the
core while they manhandle the warheads
to their compartments with a specific
time frame to follow they release the
first compartment but meanwhile destiny
has charged and is ready to fire sure
enough rat makes it through the servers
and diverts power from destiny to coney
island cheesy but a nice little moment
for rat the crew continues ejecting
warheads but sure enough they find out
their calculations are not enough yet
again josh gets pinned by one of the
warheads which in turn rolls in
pinsimsky josh makes it out but zimski
is trapped in the compartment before
it's ejected josh has to take from the
fuel injector to make the last bomb
stronger for their plan to work in doing
so he burns through his hands and is
exposed to radiation he makes his way
back to the bridge and he explains to
back that there just isn't enough energy
for them to return to the surface as the
first explosion ignites josh has an idea
that could just save them perfect timing
i know classic good guy wins trope but
who cares it makes for a good story as
the second explosion goes off we cut to
zimsky who's trapped in his compartment
making an audio recording of his
encounter
another cheesy interaction but it sums
up his character so well as the
explosions continue to go off imagery
sent to the command center shows that
their plan really did work the core
begins to spin in its natural rotation
josh and beck even get enough power
going through what's left of vergil to
hopefully steer their way out of the
earth's crust with the last shock wave
from the explosion beck and josh are
propelled straight back through to the
surface therefore so fast back through
everything they just journey through
that it makes it a little painful that
it took that long for them to get down
there when it only takes about 30
seconds to ride their way back out sure
enough beck rides a space in the
tectonic plates that just so happens to
spit them out of the crust around hawaii
once they get out of the crust virgil
loses power and they are stranded on the
bottom of the ocean floor with no way to
contact anyone to let them know they
made it out this whole movie just runs
like one big cluster of unfortunate
events sure enough they end up relying
on the sounds of wales to locate virgil
it was the tiniest mention in the
beginning and honestly it feels like
they added that part in the beginning
just so they had a way out at this point
and seeing rat run across a carrier ship
yelling it's wales kind of proves my
point so thanks to the miracle of wales
the u.s navy sends and divers that
locate virgil tow it up to the carrier
and open it our two heroes take this
last minute together to talk about what
comes next for both of them they just
plan on going back to their normal life
but leave it to josh to want to expose
everything that happened and of course
he would use rat and his hacking skills
to infiltrate a local network to
disperse the story of what happened this
movie actually makes a lot of lists for
being one of the most unrealistic
scientific films of all time there have
actually been scientific publications
published and recognized that focused on
what was scientifically wrong with the
film all in all the core feels like a
movie that wanted to be taken seriously
but ultimately it should have simply
focused a little more on being
entertaining instead still worth a watch
but don't expect much i hope you enjoyed
the video and by all means watch the
film for yourself there's something
there for everyone if you did like it
leave a like on the video and suggest
what i should watch next subscribe if
you want to see more videos like this
one and i'll see you in the next video